# BIOMD0000000050: Kinetic_modelling_of_Amadori_degradation

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000050.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000050.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
** Kinetic modelling of Amadori N-(1-deoxy-D-fructos-1-yl)-glycine degradation pathways. Part II--kinetic analysis. **   
Martins SI, Van Boekel MA. _Carbohydr Res_2003 Jul;338(16):1665-78.
[12873422](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12873422),  
**Abstract:**   
A kinetic model for N-(1-deoxy-Image -fructos-1-yl)-glycine (DFG) thermal
decomposition was proposed. Two temperatures (100 and 120 °C) and two pHs (5.5
and 6.8) were studied. The measured responses were DFG, 3-deoxyosone,
1-deoxyosone, methylglyoxal, acetic acid, formic acid, glucose, fructose,
mannose and melanoidins. For each system the model parameters, the rate
constants, were estimated by non-linear regression, via multiresponse
modelling. The determinant criterion was used as the statistical fit
criterion. Model discrimination was performed by both chemical insight and
statistical tests (Posterior Probability and Akaike criterion). Kinetic
analysis showed that at lower pH DFG 1,2-enolization is favoured whereas with
increasing pH 2,3-enolization becomes a more relevant degradation pathway. The
lower amount observed of 1-DG is related with its high reactivity. It was
shown that acetic acid, a main degradation product from DFG, was mainly formed
through 1-DG degradation. Also from the estimated parameters 3-DG was found to
be the main precursor in carbohydrate fragments formation, responsible for
colour formation. Some indication was given that as the reaction proceeded
other compounds besides DFG become reactants themselves with the formation
among others of methylglyoxal. The multiresponse kinetic analysis was shown to
be both helpful in deriving relevant kinetic parameters as well as in
obtaining insight into the reaction mechanism.

Model was intially tested in Jarnac.

The model was recently updated on 9th July 2010. The reference publication has
reported two models M1 and M2, where the parameter values are given for
conditions A) 100oC, pH5.5, B) 120oC, pH5.5, C) 100oC, pH6.8 and D) 120oC,
pH6.8.

This model corresponds to the model M2 with condition 100oC, pH6.8

The model reproduces Figure 6 of the reference publication. The curation
figure was recently added

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2010 The BioModels Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use [Le Novère N., Bornstein B., Broicher
A., Courtot M., Donizelli M., Dharuri H., Li L., Sauro H., Schilstra M.,
Shapiro B., Snoep J.L., Hucka M. (2006) BioModels Database: A Free,
Centralized Database of Curated, Published, Quantitative Kinetic Models of
Biochemical and Cellular Systems Nucleic Acids Res., 34: D689-D691.](http://ww
w.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?tool=pubmed&pubmedid=16381960)


